Master of Arts in Statistics project by Penelope Overholt. University of Missouri - Columbia, Spring Semester 2026.

This repository contains all the code I wrote for my master's project, as well as the master's project itself. The goal of this repository is to make my work replicatable. All of my code was written in R. For more details about my work, please read my project "MA_project_Overholt.pdf". Included in that document is a software section, wich explains my code a little bit. Here is an exceprt from that section: For this project I used the restricted data files from NCHS, so instead I have included the public files from CDC WONDER at my GitHub repository. The file formatCntyData.R is the code I wrote to read and format the restricted data files from NCHS, as well as the code I wrote to retrieve ACS data. The file FunctionsCntyDeath.R contains functions I wrote, as well as the packages needed for data wrangling, and producing plots and tables. The file data_analysis.R contains code I wrote to look at the additional information provided with the restricted NCHS data files, and to look at ACS covariate data. The file randomForestCnty.R contains the code I wrote for the random walk with drift model, the temporal random forest model, and the spatial random forest model. The file SAR_cnty.R contains the code I wrote for the SAR models, the intercept only model and the one that includes the covariates. The file gpboost.R contains the code to run the GPBoost models, the one with a spatial Gaussian process and the one with a temporal Gaussian process, as well as a third one that I did not do much with. The file formatToyData.R contains the code I wrote to format the public mortality data from CDC WONDER so that is it compatible with my existing code. I got the county level shapefiles from the Census Bureau, I used the 2021 files for all years. I chose the year 2021 because that pre-dates Connecticut changing its counties boundaries.
